Preference learning card sorting cover story: Electric shocks

A team of scientists is studying how people respond to painful electric shocks applied at different body locations. In the study, some participants are allowed to choose the set of shocks they receive. Each of the cards in front of you shows a choice that a study participant made between different sets of shocks. Each column represents one set of shocks, and the chosen set is always on the right, marked by this black rectangle. The colored boxes each represent one body location. For example, this card shows a case where ... Boxes that are the same color represent the same body location. For example, this card shows a case where all the sets included a shock at location X. Finally, note that participants were required to choose among the sets available, and were not allowed to opt-out and reject all the sets. For example, this card shows a case where the participant had no choice since there was only one set, so the participant had to receive shocks at these locations.

Your task is to sort these choices by how strongly they suggest that the person making the choice finds shocks at location X relatively tolerable. Please sort the cards from weakest evidence to strongest.

Feel free to spread the cards out however you like as you sort them. When you are finished, please turn the cards over and write the numbers printed on the backs of each card on this page in the order you sorted them in. If there are some cards that you think provide equal evidence, you can write their numbers on the same row. But even if you think there is only a small difference between two cards, please sort the cards into separate rows. The numbers were printed on the cards randomly, so they do not indicate anything about how the cards should be sorted. Please double-check the numbers you wrote down to make sure you didn't skip a card or accidentally write down the wrong number.

Finally, please answer the questions on the back of the page that ask you to explain briefly how you made some of your judgments.

This experiment has been taking people about 30-35 minutes to complete, so there is plenty of time to work carefully.
